# Zero Trust Security

Cyberspace is a very dynamic place — the only thing that seems to be constant is change! This perpetual change means that things which were once best-practice from a cybersecurity POV soon become obsolete and ineffective, and new approaches are needed. That might sound like a very chaotic system, but there actually is some order in the chaos because the goals don't change. In NosillaCast jargon, *the problem to be solved* remains the same, like an ever present nort-star.

## The CIA Triad

Regardless of how much the technology changes, the three competing coals for cyber security remain the same, and they go by the very impressive nickname of *the CIA Triad*:

1. **Confidentiality** — keep the secrets that need to be kept!
2. **Integrity** — prevent or at the very least detect unauthorised changes
3. **Availability** — users need to be able to access the services, apps, and data they need when they need them

Something to bear in mind is that these three things often conflict with each other, so cyber security is always a balancing act. An excellent way to ensure confidentiality and integrity is to turn the computer off, encase it in concrete, and burry it in an old disused mine, but that rather hinders availability 🙂

## The Old Model

In formal presenations you'll see the old way of thinking about cyber security described as *perimeter-based approaches*, but in less formal presentations you'll see it described using various analogies to medeival castles. There's the big bad world, the moat surrounding the whole castle, and the keep protecting the crown jewels.

So, you have an edge firewall controlling access to the LAN, the users in the LAN, and the servers in a nested data centre network behind another layer of protection.

How do you map this model onto our modern cloudy cyberverse? You can't!

## Zero Trust to the Rescue!

LEFT OFF HERE!!!
